Attendance-FaceRecognition-System
Attendance-System-Using-Face-Recognition :-
Face recognition is among the most productive image processing applications and has a pivotal role in the technical field. Recognition of the human face is an active issue for authentication purposes specifically in the context of attendance of students. Attendance system using face recognition is a procedure of recognizing students by using face biostatistics based on the high definition monitoring and other computer technologies. The development of this system is aimed to accomplish digitization of the traditional system of taking attendance by calling names and maintaining pen-paper records. Present strategies for taking attendance are tedious and time-consuming. Attendance records can be easily manipulated by manual recording. The traditional process of making attendance and present biometric systems are vulnerable to proxies. This paper is therefore proposed to tackle all these problems. The proposed system makes the use of Haar classifiers, KNN, CNN, SVM, Generative adversarial networks, and Gabor filters. After face recognition attendance reports will be generated and stored in excel format. The system is tested under various conditions like illumination, head movements, the variation of distance between the student and cameras. After vigorous testing overall complexity and accuracy are calculated. The Proposed system proved to be an efficient and robust device for taking attendance in a classroom without any time consumption and manual work. The system developed is cost-efficient and need less installation.
